Modify rule S2167: reworked rule description for LayC format [SONARJAVA-4490] (#2590)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S2167/java/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?

> The `Comparable.compareTo` method returns a negative integer, zero, or a positive integer to indicate whether the object is less than, equal to, or greater than the specified object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Comparable.compareTo` method returns a negative integer, zero, or a positive integer to indicate whether the object is less than, equal to, or greater than the parameter.
```

The sign of the return value or whether it is zero is what matters, not its magnitude.

> Returning a positive or negative constant value other than the basic ones (-1, 0, or 1) lacks justification and indicates a misunderstanding of the principle.
> It also misleads readers to think that the concrete value of the returned constant is somehow essential here.

Reviewer: We should change the tone of this text to nudge the user into changing the value, not into highlighting their misunderstanding
```suggestion
Since the contract of `compareTo` does not assign meaning to a change in magnitude returning a positive or negative constant value other than the basic ones (-1, 0, or 1) does not bring additional information to the caller.
```

When returning `Integer.MIN_VALUE`, an additional issue is 32-bit two's complement range overflow.

> If a caller were to negate the result of `compareTo()`, which may happen to invert the tested condition, this attempt would result in unexpected behavior where the condition is not inverted as intended.

Reviewer: Does it make sense to assume that the caller is going to use the return value when we justify the rule by saying that the caller should not use anything but the sign?

Author: Nope. Removed as discussed.

== How to fix it

Replace `Integer.MIN_VALUE` with -1.
Note that you should replace any other negative or positive constant return value with -1, 0, or 1 as well, but this rule is not so restrictive to report these cases as an issue.

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,java,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {
    return Integer.MIN_VALUE; // Noncompliant
  }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,java,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {
    return -1; // Compliant
  }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

> [source,java]

Reviewer: This code example and the following are missing diff-id and type attributes

Author: No diff at all, I'd like to explicitly show here which case is allowed by the rule, and which has no noncompliant counterpart. An option would be to duplicate the noncompliant code, but then we have 3 copies of it ...

----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {
    return -2; // Compliant, but lacks justification
  }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,java]
----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {

>     return hashCode() - name.hashCode(); // Compliant, not a constant

Reviewer: Specifically, because we have values that can change as we make the value change over time, I would remove the text at lines 9-10

In contrast, it could potentially confuse code readers who are trying to understand its purpose.

== How to fix it

Replace any positive constant return value with 1.
Replace any negative constant return value with -1.

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,java,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {
    return Integer.MIN_VALUE; // Noncompliant
  }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,java,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {
    return -1; // Compliant
  }
}
----

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,java,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {
    return 42; // Noncompliant
  }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,java,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
----
public int compareTo(Name name) {
  if (condition) {
    return 1; // Compliant
  }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

It is compliant to return other values than -1, 0 or 1 if they are not constants:

[source,java]

> ----

Author: Fixed.

> ----

Reviewer: Is it?
